DBZ-651 Documentation for Debezium Server (#1504)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/operations/debezium-server.adoc

= Debezium Server
include::../_attributes.adoc[]
:linkattrs:
:icons: font
:toc:
:toc-placement: macro

toc::[]

[NOTE]
====
This feature is currently in incubating state, i.e. exact semantics, configuration options etc. may change in future revisions, based on the feedback we receive. Please let us know if you encounter any problems while using this extension.
====

> Debezium provides an out-of-the-box application that streams changes from a source database to a sink system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debezium provides a ready-to-use application that streams change events from a source database to messaging infrastructure like Amazon Kinesis or Google Pub/Sub.
For streaming change events to Apache Kafka, it is recommended to deploy the Debezium connectors via Kafka Connect.
```

== Installation

> To install the server download and upack the server distribution archive:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the server download and unpack the server distribution archive:
```

ifeval::['{page-version}' == 'master']
* {link-server-snapshot}[Debezium Server distribution]

> NOTE: The above links is to nightly snapshot of the Debezium master branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The above links refers to the nightly snapshot build of the Debezium master branch.
```

> If you are looking for non-snapshot version, please select the appropriate version in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are looking for a non-snapshot version, please select the appropriate version of this documentation in the menu to the right.
```

endif::[]
ifeval::['{page-version}' != 'master']
* https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-server/{debezium-version}/debezium-server-{debezium-version}-distribution.tar.gz[Debezium Server distribution]
endif::[]

> A directory named `debezium-server` will be created with content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A directory named `debezium-server` will be created with these contents:
```

----
debezium-server/
|-- CHANGELOG.md
|-- conf
|-- CONTRIBUTE.md
|-- COPYRIGHT.txt

> |-- debezium-server-1.2.0-SNAPSHOT-runner.jar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|-- debezium-server-{debezium-version}-runner.jar
```

|-- lib
|-- LICENSE-3rd-PARTIES.txt
|-- LICENSE.txt
|-- README.md
`-- run.sh
----

> The server is started using `run.sh` script, dependencies are stored in the `lib` directory and directory `conf` contains configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server is started using `run.sh` script, dependencies are stored in the `lib` directory, and the directory `conf` contains configuration files.
```

== Configuration

Debezium Server uses https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config[MicroProfile Configuration] for configuration.
This means that the application can be configured from disparate sources like configuration files, environment variables, system properties etc.

> The main configuration file is `conf/application.properties`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main configuration file is _conf/application.properties_.
```

There are multiple sections configured:

> * `debezium.source` is for source connector configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `debezium.source` is for source connector configuration; each instance of Debezium Server runs exactly one connector
```

* `debezium.sink` is for the sink system configuration
* `debezium.format` is for the output serialization format configuration

> * `debezium.transforms` is for configuration of Kafka Connect SMTs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `debezium.transforms` is for the configuration of message transformations
```

> An example configuration file can look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example configuration file can look like so:
```

----
debezium.sink.type=kinesis
debezium.sink.kinesis.region=eu-central-1
debezium.source.connector.class=io.debezium.connector.postgresql.PostgresConnector
debezium.source.offset.storage.file.filename=data/offsets.dat
debezium.source.offset.flush.interval.ms=0
debezium.source.database.hostname=localhost
debezium.source.database.port=5432
debezium.source.database.user=postgres
debezium.source.database.password=postgres
debezium.source.database.dbname=postgres
debezium.source.database.server.name=tutorial
debezium.source.schema.whitelist=inventory
----

> When the server is started it generates a sequnce of log messages like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the server is started it generates a seqeunce of log messages like this:
```

2020-05-15 11:33:12,838 INFO  [io.deb.con.com.BaseSourceTask] (pool-3-thread-1)    offset.storage.file.filename = data/offsets.dat
2020-05-15 11:33:12,838 INFO  [io.deb.con.com.BaseSourceTask] (pool-3-thread-1)    database.hostname = localhost
2020-05-15 11:33:12,838 INFO  [io.deb.con.com.BaseSourceTask] (pool-3-thread-1)    database.password = ********
2020-05-15 11:33:12,839 INFO  [io.deb.con.com.BaseSourceTask] (pool-3-thread-1)    name = kinesis
2020-05-15 11:33:12,839 INFO  [io.deb.con.com.BaseSourceTask] (pool-3-thread-1)    database.server.name = tutorial
2020-05-15 11:33:12,839 INFO  [io.deb.con.com.BaseSourceTask] (pool-3-thread-1)    database.port = 5432
2020-05-15 11:33:12,839 INFO  [io.deb.con.com.BaseSourceTask] (pool-3-thread-1)    schema.whitelist = inventory
2020-05-15 11:33:12,908 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) debezium-server 1.2.0-SNAPSHOT (powered by Quarkus 1.4.1.Final) started in 1.198s. Listening on: http://0.0.0.0:8080
2020-05-15 11:33:12,911 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) Profile prod activated. 
2020-05-15 11:33:12,911 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) Installed features: [cdi, smallrye-health]
----

=== Source configuration

> The source configuration uses the same configuration properties (just with `debezium.source` prefix) that are described in connectors' configurations together with few more specific necessary for running outside of Kafka Connect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source configuration uses the same configuration properties that are described on the specific connector documentation pages (just with `debezium.source` prefix), together with few more specific ones, necessary for running outside of Kafka Connect:
```

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|=======================
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[source-connector-class]]<<source-connector-class, `debezium.source.connector.class`>>
|
|The name of the Java class implementing the source connector.

|[[source-offset-storage-file-filename]]<<source-offset-storage-file-filename, `debezium.source.offset.storage.file.filename`>>
|
|The file in which connector offsets are stored for non-Kafka deployments.

|[[source-offset-flush-interval-ms]]<<source-offset-flush-interval-ms, `debezium.source.offset.flush.interval.ms`>>
|
|Defines how frequently the offsets are flushed into the file.

|=======================

=== Format configuration

The message output format can be configured for both key and value separately.

> By default the output is in JSON format but an arbitrary implementation of Kafka Connect converter can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the output is in JSON format but an arbitrary implementation of Kafka Connect's `Converter` can be used.
```

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|=======================
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[debezium-format-key]]<<debezium-format-key, `debezium.format.key`>>
|`json`
|The name of the output format for key, one of `json`/`avro`.

|[[debezium-format-key-props]]<<debezium-format-key-props, `debezium.format.key.*`>>
|
|Configuration properties passed to the key converter.

|[[debezium-format-value]]<<debezium-format-value, `debezium.format.value`>>
|`json`
|The name of the output format for value, one of `json`/`avro`.

|[[debezium-format-value-props]]<<debezium-format-value-props, `debezium.format.value.*`>>
|
|Configuration properties passed to the value converter.

|=======================

=== Transformation configuration

> Before the messages dare delivered to the sink they can run through a sequence of transformation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the messages are delivered to the sink, they can run through a sequence of transformations.
```

The server supports https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-66%3A+Single+Message+Transforms+for+Kafka+Connect[single message transformations] defined by Kafka Connect.
The configuration will need to contain the list of transformations, implementation class for each transformation and configuration options for each of the transformations.

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|=======================
|Property
|Default
|Description

|`debezium.transformations`
|
|The comma separated list of symbolic names of transformations.

|`debezium.transformations.<name>.class`
|
|The name of Java class implementing the transformation with name `<name>`.

|`debezium.transformations.<name>.*`
|
|Configuration properties passed to the transformation with name `<name>`.

|=======================

=== Sink configuration

Sink configuration is specific for each sink type.
Currently the only supported sink is https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/[Amazon Kinesis].

The sink is selected by configuration property `debezium.sink.type`.

==== Amazon Kinesis

> Amazon Kinesis is an implementation of data streming system with support form stream sharding and other techniques for high scalability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon Kinesis is an implementation of data streaming system with support for stream sharding and other techniques for high scalability.
```

Kinesis exposes a set of REST APIs and provides a (not-only) Java SDK that is used to implement the sink.

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|=======================
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[kinesis-type]]<<kinesis-type, `debezium.sink.type`>>
|
|Must be set to `kinesis`.

|[[kinesis-region]]<<kinesis-region, `debezium.sink.kinesis.region`>>
|
|A region name in which the Kinesis target streams are provided.

|[[kinesis-credentials-profile]]<<kinesis-credentials-profile, `debezium.sink.kinesis.creadentials.profile`>>
|`default`

> |A credentials profile name use to communicate with Amazon API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A credentials profile name used to communicate with Amazon API.
```

|[[kinesis-null-key]]<<kinesis-null-key, `debezium.sink.kinesis.null.key`>>
|`default`

> |Kinesis does not support the notion of message without key. So this string will be used as message key for messages from tables without primary key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Kinesis does not support the notion of messages without key. So this string will be used as message key for messages from tables without primary key.
```

|=======================

==== Injection points

> Kinesis sink beahviour can be modified by a custom code providing alternative implementations of requested functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kinesis sink behaviour can be modified by a custom logic providing alternative implementations for specific functionalities.
```

When the alternative implementations are not available then the default ones are used.

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|=======================
|Interface
|CDI classifier
|Description

|[[kinesis-ext-client]]<<kinesis-ext-client, `software.amazon.awssdk.services.kinesis.KinesisClient`>>
|`@CustomConsumerBuilder`
|Custom configured instance of a `KinesisClient` used to send messages to target streams.

|[[kinesis-ext-stream-name-mapper]]<<kinesis-ext-stream-name-mapper, `io.debezium.server.kinesis.StreamNameMapper`>>
|

> |A code that maps the planned destination name into a physical Kinesis stream name. By default the same name is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Custom implementation maps the planned destination (topic) name into a physical Kinesis stream name. By default the same name is used.
```

|=======================

== Extensions

> Debezium Server uses https://quarkus.io/[Quarkus framework] and relies on dependency injection to enable developer to extend its behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debezium Server uses the https://quarkus.io/[Quarkus framework] and relies on dependency injection to enable developer to extend its behaviour.
Note that only the JVM mode of Quarkus is supported, but not native execution via GraalVM.
```

> The server can be extended in two ways by providing a custom code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server can be extended in two ways by providing a custom logic:
```

* implementation of a new sink
* customization of an existing sink - i.e. non-standard configuration

=== Implementation of a new sink

The new sink can be implemented as a CDI bean implementing interface `DebeziumEngine.ChangeConsumer` and with annotation `@Named` and unique name and scope `@Dependent`.

> The name of the bean is the used as the `debezium.sink.type` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of the bean is used as the `debezium.sink.type` option.
```

The sink needs to read the configuration using Microprofile Config API.
The execution path must pass the messages into the target system and regularly commit the passed/processed messages.

> See https://github.com/debezium/debezium/blob/master/debezium-server/src/main/java/io/debezium/server/kinesis/KinesisChangeConsumer.java[Kinesis sink] implementation for further details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the https://github.com/debezium/debezium/blob/master/debezium-server/src/main/java/io/debezium/server/kinesis/KinesisChangeConsumer.java[Kinesis sink] implementation for further details.
```
